# <h1> OpenGL-ChessScene </h1>
<hr>

<h3> General Overview </h3>

<h3>How do I approach designing software? </h3>
<p>My approach to designing software involves a combination of research and innovation. Regarding this project in OpenGL, I had relatively little experience with the API. As a result, quite a bit of research was involved in creating a finished product. That being said, I made sure the the end result had a unique spin on it that showed my personality and artstyle. My research throughout the project's development taught me some design principles that are common in OpenGL development, such as commenting style, file structure, and coding practices. My past experience in 3D rendering programs such as Blender allowed me to integrate design principles from the art world to enhance my project's visual appearance.</p>
<p>My work in the future will continue to integrate research and my past experience. As I complete more projects, I would expect the ratio of research to personal experience will shift towards pulling from my past experience moreso than research. That being said, software is constantly changing and an element of research will always be involved in my design process.</p>

<h3>How do I approach developing programs?</h3>
<p>To develop programs, I utilize past work that is similar to what I am trying to build. Many elements of this project were created by others before. Certain sources, such as LearnOpenGL.com, have tutorials with starter code to use as a base for more complex projects. Using starter code as a base and building upon it is a core element of building complex projects, especially if it is one's first time interacting with a particular API.</p>
<p> I used the above technique for many elements of my project. For instance, I was inexperienced with utilizing lighting in particular, as many of my video game projects in the past have been 2D programs. To get started with 3D lighting, I read through LearnOpenGL's lighting module and utilized its starting code to initially set up the lights. I had to do a bit of tweaking to make the code work with my shader program, position the lights appropriately, and have the lights produce the correct color, ambient, diffuse, and specular values. Without the starter code as a guide, developing the lighting portion of the program would have taken a considerably longer period of time to achieve the same result. </p>
<p> This was not always my preferred way of developing programs, however. In the past, I thought it would be prudent to read through the logic of a program before developing a new program from scratch. I believed it would make me have a better understanding of the code. I have since realized that implementing starter code into a project requires you understand the logic to properly utilize the code anyways. Memorizing lines of code is not the primary job of a software developer; understanding the logic behind code is far more important. </p>

<h3>How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?</h3>
<p> Computer science is a field of logic. Logic is an essential tool in all aspects of life. Being able to solve problems in an efficient manner is useful not only for educational achievement, but in the professional world as well. While I will continue to build upon my software development skills in an educational capacity, I plan on utilizing my newfound OpenGL and program development knowledge in the future further my game studio's projects in a professional capacity. My ultimate goal is to operate a studio outside of my current profession, and the work I have completed for this project is a major milestone in this journey. This project required learning a new and challenging API that has a direct correlation to 3D graphics rendering and I look forward to applying these skills in my educational and professional journey in the future. </p>
